== How I got here ==

2014-05-17

So, I have this new site git.mudrak.name powered by
[Gitlab](https://www.gitlab.com/). Please, don't be confused. It's not meant as
yet another public Git hosting site. It's strictly personal site. Wait, isn't
it weird to use Gitlab for that? Well, maybe. But it seems to fit my current
needs best.

The first homepage I ever had was just static HTML. Worked well for presenting
basic bio and some examples of my work. That's actually all I want to have. A
single web place where I can easily publish files, ideas, code, images etc. But
looking after all the formatting, layout, styles become just boring job to do
(and HTML4 became out-fashioned). And I'm not a web designer. I consider myself
as a programmer. Geek. I'm not really into modern trends in web look and feel.

So I switched to a blog running on [Wordpress](http://wordpress.org/) installed
on my own server. It was serving pretty well for the "Moodle development
traffic" I was maintaining by that time. But I love my command line. I love my
[text editor](http://www.vim.org/). I prefer
[markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) over wysiwyg or HTML.
And I like trying new things.

So I started to experiment with [Mahara](https://mahara.org/) that I was trying
to customize so it works well as a single user site. Everything I write and
share is at the end just a trace of my life-long learning, isn't it. So why not
to use this nice e-portfolio system that integrates content sharing, blog and
access control into one application. Well. Even after I managed to get markdown
support to it and was producing content locally (thanks to the nice feature of
[Vimperator](http://www.vimperator.org/vimperator) allowing you to edit
textareas in your favourite $EDITOR), it became evident that I will never be
completely happy with web interfaces. I love content tracking and versioning in
git. I want to stay with my terminal, I want to commit my blog posts, not press
submit buttons.

That brought me to [docpad](http://docpad.org/) and I pretty liked the ideas
behind it. But as node.js is not my daily bread, it would be too time consuming
to turn it into something I would be happy with. When I grow up, I will return
to it. But not now.

So I set up my personal Gitlab. I don't really need and want custom skin,
backtracking, social media integration and other goodies. All I really need and
want is a system that publishes my git repositories and formats my markdown
into HTML for eventual visitors of the site. So I think I would be happy for a
while now. Let's see.
